

🔹 Git Command: 
git revert


🔹 Description:
The git revert command is used to create a new commit that undoes the changes introduced by a previous commit, without altering the history of the repository. 
It is a safe way to "undo" a commit because it doesn’t remove any commit from the history; instead, it creates a new commit that reverses the effects of the specified commit.

This command is typically used when:

* You want to undo a commit, but keeping the commit history intact.
* You need to undo a commit that has already been pushed to a shared repository (unlike git reset, which is best for local changes).

Unlike git reset, which moves the HEAD and can rewrite history, 
git revert maintains the commit history while effectively canceling out the changes.


🔹 Options:
<commit> :-Specifies the commit hash to revert.
-n or --no-commit :-Applies the revert changes but does not create a commit (stages the changes for a manual commit).
-m <parent-number> :-Used for reverting a merge commit. Specifies which parent to keep.
--edit :-Opens the commit message editor before completing the revert.
--signoff :-Adds a Signed-off-by line to the commit message.
-f or --force :-Forces a revert even if there are conflicts.


🔹 Example:
git revert a1b2c3d
Reverts the changes made by commit a1b2c3d and creates a new commit with the changes undone.

🔹 Example:
git revert -n a1b2c3d
Reverts the changes from commit a1b2c3d but does not automatically commit. This allows you to make additional changes before committing.

🔹 Example:
git revert -m 1 a1b2c3d
Reverts a merge commit (a1b2c3d), keeping the first parent of the merge commit.

🔹 Example:
git revert --edit a1b2c3d
Reverts the commit a1b2c3d and allows you to edit the commit message before committing.

🔹 Example:
git revert --signoff a1b2c3d
Reverts the commit a1b2c3d and adds a "Signed-off-by" line to the commit message.

🔹 Syntax:
git revert <commit>

🔹 Syntax:
git revert -n <commit>

🔹 Syntax:
git revert -m <parent-number> <commit>

🔹 Syntax:
git revert --edit <commit>

🔹 Syntax:
git revert --signoff <commit>